Prologue


“Can you see me?” Cole yelled over to them. He was standing on the south shore of the reservoir, barefoot and facing the water. He looked like he was thinking, but Janet knew better. The scrunch in Cole’s expression came from trying to keep his belly in a six-pack.

“I’ve got you,” Victoria yelled back as she framed her brother. She was using his phone and struggling with the device. “How do you zoom on this thing?” she asked as she shuffled to the edge, not looking at her feet and focusing on Cole. Janet could see a pink stamp of tongue at the corner of Victoria’s mouth as she tried her best to get the shot her brother wanted.

“You’ve got to be in portrait mode when you go live.”

Janet meant it as a polite pointer, but as the words came out of her mouth, they sounded like a jab. She didn’t mean it to be a dig, but she couldn’t help it, either. Her tone was why people thought she was such a bitch. Her tone and that she kind of was. Whatever—it was fun to watch the sheep quiver.

“I, uh,” Victoria stammered, propping the phone upright, then looking over to Janet for confirmation that she was holding it correctly.

“Never mind,” Cole yelled, exhaling, letting his six-pack deflate to a four-pack. Cole was effortlessly hot. Really. And Janet thought he looked better when he didn’t try. “Maybe just let Janet do it, okay?” Cole hollered, frustrated. “Please?”

Janet crept over to the edge to join Cole’s sister, careful not to slip. As soon as Janet had the phone away from Victoria, she was adjusting focus and framing. It wasn’t Victoria’s fault she was inept. She was young, inexperienced. What was she? Twelve, thirteen? How old were eighth graders? It didn’t matter. Victoria Hill was naive. Janet had mastered the stomach-in-ass-out art of the selfie before Victoria had been old enough to remember her own passcode.

Janet gave the signal and Cole performed a backflip—well, a half flip—with a splash into the water that was probably bigger than he meant it to be.

Behind her, there was a cascade of can tabs being pulled, twist-off bottles popped. Matt must have given a signal that the party was safe. It was Matt Trent’s job to figure out when his fellow security guards would next patrol the reservoir. He must have seen them head back to their cabin at the mouth of the driveway. That meant they had about an hour until they’d need to think about leaving. Plenty of time for the lightweights to get wasted.

From over Janet’s shoulder there was a deep rumble and then a familiar voice.

“Outta my way!” Ginger Wagner shouted. Ginger wasn’t her real name; it was Annabeth. But she’d tried lightening her hair in seventh grade, the process had gone all sorts of wrong, and her hair had ended up this clown-red color. She’d kept it, claiming she liked it that way, and had been “Ginger” ever since. Janet turned, forgetting Cole’s phone in her hand, and watched Ginger skateboard past.

“Watch it, slag!” Janet yelled as Ginger rolled by. She got a playful finger in response.

Janet smiled, eyes moving with Ginger. The wheels of the girl’s skateboard were loud on the old, pitted concrete.

Janet tracked her with the camera. “You’re live, Ginger! Do something,” she shouted, and Ginger complied, popping her board over the knee-high lip of concrete that passed for a safety barrier. Ginger cannonballed into the reservoir, her board following her on the thirty-foot drop. Live content gold. Janet made a note to Boomerang the first few seconds of airtime and tweet it out when she got home.

Kids pushed to the lip of the reservoir, watched the water.

The party seemed to hit the pause button as they waited for Ginger to surface. Nobody opened drinks, nobody talked or laughed.

On the shore below, Matt had climbed down to join Cole at the edge of the water. Looking out of place in his security guard shirt and swim trunks, Matt had his phone out. It was a big Samsung Galaxy that used to be his mom’s. Mom hand-me-downs, yuck. Janet shivered. Not that she was rich like Cole, but at least she didn’t have to live in constant fear of her battery overheating and exploding.

“Uhhhh, dudes.”

They were still waiting for Ginger. She had been holding her breath for a long time . . .

Matt yelled up, “If she drowns, I get to keep the body.” Janet wasn’t even sure what he meant, but assumed he was being disgusting. Even though he was the guy who let them into the reservoir to party, Matt was a fucking dick—and Janet knew she wasn’t the only person who thought that.

They waited. Janet could feel her own lungs begin to strain—she didn’t even realize she’d been holding her breath—but then Ginger’s head broke the surface of the water. She was waving her bikini top. “Impact knocked it right off! Come on in!” she said. “Water’s warm.”

Kids didn’t need any more of an invitation. The dam of propriety broke and everyone rushed for the water. Some climbed down to the shore, while some took the more direct route of a high-dive. Fuck, who are all these people? Janet recognized most of the kids from their year, knew all the juniors. A few more of the faces she knew, but not the names. Some she recognized as seniors of little note. A handful were older kids who’d graduated but hadn’t gone off to college for one reason or another. The older kids made Janet a little uneasy, but then they were probably where most of the beer came from.

No, the older creeps weren’t what was really troubling her. There are underclassmen here. Janet felt the back of her neck prickle with indignation. She looked at the young faces. Singling them out by the way they sipped their beers. They’d be taught a lesson later. Maybe she’d encourage Tucker to get them drunk and then abandon them out by Tillerson’s field. Every year some drunk frosh wound up knocking on the Tillersons’ front door to use their phone because no one could get a cell signal out there and the little punks needed to call Mom for a ride home. So why not a whole bunch of them, dropped directly from the reservoir?

No, it wasn’t just the trespassing freshmen pissing her off, either. It wasn’t like she’d remember tomorrow to launch a full investigation, but Janet was annoyed that someone in their group had open-invited everyone. Tonight should have been their night, just the six of them—seven if you counted Victoria (Janet didn’t).

This trip to the reservoir was meant to be for just them.

“Give me that,” Janet said, swiping a beer from a terrified-looking first-year. “We can’t be drinking on camera, dickhead.” She drained the half beer and tossed the empty can over her shoulder. The boy watched, something like admiration—infatuation?—creeping onto his face. Janet shoved him and told him to “Fuck off.” It made her feel better.

“Yo, Janet,” Cole called up. He was halfway up the stairs. “Ready to try the backflip again?” He made a “start rolling” motion with one finger.

Oh yeah, she still had his phone.

She didn’t even remember ending the feed. That wasn’t good. She hit the button to reconnect. There was a hazy moment of the phone fighting for a connection, then the five-second countdown.

“Look out below!” Tucker Lee yelled as he ran into frame with a lit M-80 in hand.

“What the fuck—” Janet heard herself starting, but then Cole lifted a hand. She cut the stream before it could go live again.

“What are you doing?” Cole yelled up, taking the stairs two at a time to join them on the overlook above the reservoir.

“I wasn’t going to actually throw it,” Tucker said. The fuse was still burning, but he didn’t seem worried. It was a long and slow fizz. Those things were hard to put out. She’d once seen Tucker toss one into a bucket of water, and it still exploded. An M-80 wasn’t a firecracker; they were quarter sticks of fucking dynamite.

“Put it out,” Cole told him.

“Ah, seriously, man,” Tucker whined, the fuse still a slow phfffffffzzzz.

“Now,” Cole said, stepping up right in his face. Or as close as Cole could get, being a full foot shorter than Tucker.

Tucker groaned, wrapped the fuse between two fingers, and pulled off the cherry without flinching, even though it had to have burned him.

“Pack of six costs me ten bucks,” Tucker said.

“Here,” Cole said, pulling a beer out of a cooler that’d appeared at their feet while they’d been talking. “Even?”

“Cream ale? Seriously?”

“Fuck you.” Cole laughed. “Just drink it.”

Order restored, Cole gave Janet a nod and she started the process to go live again.

“Hey, guys and gals,” Cole said. He had his YouTube voice on and Janet couldn’t help but smile. Such a doofus. Cole wasn’t tall and broad-shouldered. He was compact and angular. Perfectly proportioned. He could throw a ball, but that was as blue-collar as he got. He’d never be working the fields or the production line at Baypen, but it didn’t matter. The rich boy was not destined for real work. “We’re coming to you live from an undisclosed location,” he continued.

Janet couldn’t figure out the need for secrecy. Everyone would know they were at the Kettle Springs Reservoir.

“Worldstar!” someone on the far end of the reservoir yelled, then did a sloppy somersault from one of the two concrete stacks across from them. The stacks flanked either side of the pool’s overflow waterfall, and it usually took a few more drinks before boys were scrambling up their algae-slick sides. But tonight people were eager to party, apparently.

Janet caught the kid’s flip in the background of the stream but didn’t zoom in or pull focus away from her main subject. This was Cole’s moment and she knew not to cut away.

“As you can see,” Cole said, pivoting and indicating for Janet to do the same so she could catch more of the walkway behind him, “summer weather has overstayed its welcome, and the crew and I are celebrating the only way we know how.” He came to a stop beside Ronnie. The girl leaned in and put her hand on his bare stomach, just above his bathing suit line. Ronnie Queen was shameless. And where did she get that bikini? Whether it was online or at the mall on Route 70, Janet and Ronnie usually did their shopping together. Janet kinda couldn’t believe Ronnie would wear something so stringy without, at least, sending a snap to Janet for comment. Janet’s approval. Whatever, that was probably why Ronnie had done it. The bathing suit and wearing it was a deliberate snub.

Janet could see in Ronnie’s eyes that she’d gotten what she wanted: Cole was noticing. Not in a pervy way—he was too cool for that—but a slight blush in his cheeks, a glint in his eyes that he knew what would keep people in their stream engaged.

“You’re looking good, Ronnie,” Cole said.

“Well, uh, thank you, Cole,” Ronnie said, her delivery not nearly as smooth as his, a hand on his forearm, not to steady her but to flirt.

Dream on, Ronnie. He’s out of your league. I can’t even get with him.

Ronnie looked nervous, and she should have been. They were only a minute and thirty seconds into the feed, but Janet knew without having to check that the bikini wasn’t enough . . . their audience was already starting to click away.

This shit was getting boring.

“You are looking good, Ronnie. But I will also say . . .” Cole smiled into the camera. He was a pro, seemed to have a natural sense that something needed to happen in their video and quick. “You’re looking a little dry.” He whistled through his teeth. Tucker appeared, scooped Ronnie onto one big shoulder, and flung her over the edge. There was very little theatricality to it, no buildup, but the toss played well because, even on the small screen, you could tell from her expression that Ronnie wasn’t in on the joke. If she’d conspired with the boys beforehand, she definitely wouldn’t have worn that bathing suit.

“Thanks, Tuck,” Cole said, patting his friend on the shoulder as Tucker walked back to his circle of drinking buddies.

Cole looked beyond the camera: “So, Janet, out of a possible ten, what do we give Ronnie’s dive?”

There. She was given permission to be catty, to do what she did best, and after that desperate bid on Ronnie’s part to try to grab Cole’s attention, the girl knowing that Janet herself had been chipping away at that mountain for years, Janet let loose.

“Her legs were all over the place. Never mind the thigh jiggle. I’m going with a four-point-oh-no,” Janet said, happy, finally vibing with the party atmosphere.

“Nah, my girl’s a ten. Even when she’s a rag doll,” Matt said, interrupting, his own phone out in selfie mode. He had his uniform top off now, not that it would take much of a detective to figure out who let them in. Was he serious? Splitting their audience like that? And who would be watching his stream when they had the choice of Cole’s? Janet scowled at him.

“We’re getting live comments,” Janet said, bringing things back, reading the screen. “Dee says that you’re starting to look mighty dry yourself, Cole.”

Cole smiled, gave a bashful laugh, and started to make flirtatious conversation with the camera. But Janet couldn’t focus on what he was saying.

Victoria Hill hadn’t worn a bathing suit to the reservoir. And why would she? Cole’s sister never went in. But now Janet could see that Victoria had stripped off her clothes. In just her underwear she was balance-beaming her way around the lip of the reservoir’s pitched east side, headed for the stacks. Nobody walked the sides of the reservoir. If you wanted to get to the other side, you took the long way around on the dirt, not on the narrow concrete lip. Victoria had a half-empty bottle of strawberry vodka in hand and was wobbling like she’d drunk it all herself. Janet watched, her breath held for the second time tonight. But Cole’s sister made it across safely. She was on the other side without slipping, without skinning her knees and elbows, before splashing into the water.

Janet continued watching Cole’s sister because this—whatever this was—wasn’t over. After taking a swig and tossing the bottle down, Victoria tiptoed to the ladder that led up to the first concrete stack.

This wasn’t a public swimming pool and the stack wasn’t meant to be a diving board, but as Victoria climbed, Janet found new respect for Cole’s chronically basic little sister. Whatever she was doing, it wasn’t easy.

Victoria Hill was quietly making a scene without making a scene.

Ignoring Cole’s continuing monologue to the camera, Janet zoomed in on his sister’s ascent.

“You with me?” Cole said, finally realizing the focus wasn’t on him.

“Check it out.” Janet pointed. Victoria had made it to the top of the concrete stack and had both her arms out.

Victoria’s waving arms were either for balance or to hype up the crowd, it was hard to tell.

“Do it! We’re bored of your brother,” Tucker yelled, his arm around a freshman boy he’d been forcing to fetch his drinks. Tucker Lee clenched the boy tight to him, big hands and big arms like a vise.

“Jump!” Ronnie yelled from somewhere below them, down in the water.

“Yeah, jump!” Matt echoed, seemingly forgetting that he was being paid to guard everyone’s security.

“Do it! Do it!” The rest of the party picked up the chant.

Janet had Victoria perfectly framed. The shot was grainy enough, far enough, to seem real, candid and improvised—and it seemed that way because it was all of those things.

What was Victoria waiting for? This was her moment. Victoria could make a statement here. Make the years ahead of her bearable. Be popular. Janet was in awe, impressed. Janet had pulled herself up the social ladder gradually, but Victoria was fixing to do it all in one night, in one stunt.

And then, finally, after two gymnast’s pumps on the balls of her feet, Victoria jumped.

Later, Janet would swear she had no idea anything was wrong, that the bump against the back of Victoria’s head barely looked like anything. But she did notice. She saw it when it happened. The little jitter, the bounce of Victoria’s face moving suddenly a half inch to the left as the back of her hair moved past the edge of the concrete stack.

Janet might have been the only person out at the reservoir to pinpoint the exact moment the descent changed from a dive to a fall.

Louder than the smack-splash of Victoria’s back connecting with the water was the echoing “oooooo” from everyone gathered, watching. They all must’ve sensed something bad, but no one moved. No one thought to do anything. Why should they? A hundred million billion kids had made that dive before Victoria Hill. There’d been a couple of bent-back toenails and bloody noses, but outside of that, nothing bad had ever happened. So why now?

They waited, just as they’d waited for Ginger’s dye job to reappear, but it didn’t take nearly as long for Victoria to surface.

With her face down. Arms out.

Janet dropped Cole’s phone. It would film the sky until the battery died two hours later. On the live feed, you could hear voices. Screaming. But you couldn’t see Cole dive in. You couldn’t see him pull his sister to shore. You couldn’t see that she looked fine. Like she was sleeping, until you lifted her up and saw the gentle gush of blood at the back of her scalp, parting her wet hair. You couldn’t see what the coroner would report, that the back of her skull had been caved inward on the edge of the stack.

Being there, you couldn’t know what the kids watching the livestream had picked up immediately, down in the comments:

OH SHIT, that girl is dead.





One


ONE YEAR LATER

“Wait! Stop!”

The moving truck backfired and then groaned. Asphalt crunched as the vehicle began to roll forward.

“You can’t leave like this!”

Quinn Maybrook watched, helpless, as her dad flung himself against the side of the truck. He steadied himself on the running board. His stringy forearms tensed, gripping the side mirror, climbing up to plead with the driver through clenched teeth.

It would have been a harrowing action-movie scene . . . except the truck was barely moving.

The driver applied the brakes, the truck shuddering and groaning again, and cracked the window:

“Look, Dr. Maybrook, you paid for delivery and load-out, not load-in. We drove overnight to get here and it’s going to be a whole day to drive back to Philly. We have another gig first thing tomorrow—”

“But I—”

“I’m sorry, but we gotta go,” the man said, moving to roll the window back up. Dad slipped his fingers into the gap, putting his weight on the window.

The guy gave him a look that said I will roll up this window and chop off your fingertips but please don’t make me do that because it’ll be a major headache for everyone.

Her dad let go.

“Don’t review us on Yelp!” the driver yelled, hitting the gas. The sudden start shook her dad loose. He stumble-stepped back to where Quinn stood, and they watched the truck pull down the street. All they could do was sigh.

Glenn Maybrook dusted himself off. He adjusted his glasses.

“Well,” he said, clapping his hands as if he hadn’t been trying to wrestle a truck, “I guess we’re here.” Quinn could see that his composure was about to crack. He muttered, began repeating: “We’re here, we’re here . . .”

“Come on, Dad. It’s not a big deal. This isn’t that much stuff,” Quinn said. The move had been harder than expected, though, and now they needed to get everything inside.

Mom would have thought it was hilarious if she were here. But, of course, if Mom were still around, there’s no way that they’d ever have left Philadelphia to move to Kettle Springs, Missouri.

But Mom wasn’t here, and so they were.

Standing in the middle of the street, Quinn looked to the horizon, as if she could go on tiptoes and see the Comcast building back home. When her father told her where they were moving, Quinn had done some quick googling and concluded that the town would be, like, one big cornfield. That it would be quiet, sleepy, and boring. But that wasn’t fair, because already there was more here than she thought there’d be. Which was good—she might be trying to view the town as a yearlong pit stop between her present and her future, but it’d be nice if the year was halfway enjoyable.

Their new house was a five-minute ride from downtown, which they’d driven through on their way in. Main Street seemed to be not just the main road, but the only way out of Kettle Springs, giving the impression that the Missouri town was more a glorified cul-de-sac. Passing through downtown, Quinn noticed a fifties-style diner and a bookstore that was probably all secondhand paperback romances and mysteries where the detectives owned cats. Or the detectives were cats. Not her scene.

But on the brighter side, there was also a second-run movie theater and not one but two thrift stores, one shuttered. The theater and thrift shops would have been full of hipsters back in Philly, but here they were probably what passed for premium, cutting-edge entertainment. She looked forward to checking them out.

Their new street, Marshall Lane, was lined with four houses on each side, and there were indications of life in each. Two houses had big green John Deere tractors parked out front. Or were they riding lawnmowers? Quinn wasn’t sure what the difference was. But she’d learn. She’d learn that and more. Moving to Kettle Springs would be . . . a learning experience.

She looked back to the curb and their earthly belongings. In the early-morning light, what struck her most was how little of the front yard their stuff covered.

Outside of the boxes, most of which were supplies for Dad’s new practice, there was a leather roll-chair with one plastic wheel chipped; two mattresses, different sizes but the same brand; a doll from when she was little that she hadn’t picked up in years and couldn’t believe had made the trip with them; two milk crates of her dad’s old records but no record player; their TV that they’d wrapped in a frayed old comforter; a twine-tied stack of outdated medical journals that would likely wind up in the basement, never to be untied; an old couch that looked older and uglier on the lawn than it ever had in their old trinity apartment; a fading CRT computer monitor; and a poster tube that’d been bent in half during the move—Audrey Hepburn’s face was almost certainly creased forever.

And looming above this assemblage was the house.

The siding was cracked, the windows shimmery, the front door in desperate need of firm sanding and a fresh paint job, and from what Quinn could see, the roof looked like her teeth felt—mossy. (She’d brushed before they’d left, but it had been a long trip with a lot of gas station food.) The bones of a nice house were there—the front porch and its deck swing were charming—but what was on those bones . . . damn.

No time to worry about what she couldn’t change. There was work to do. Getting everything inside would take the better part of the day, and she was determined to get it all done. And quickly. It was still early and she hadn’t spotted any neighbors, but the road to minimal embarrassment was getting everything inside before she and her dad could be seen having a reverse yard sale.

God. Quinn was exhausted. After they got this junk unpacked, she needed sleep. Tomorrow was her first day of school—her second first day of school this year, as it turned out—and she needed to be fresh.

Her dad caught her eye, saw that she’d been taking it all in, and threw up his hands. He gestured to their stuff and looked ready to cry.

“Don’t worry. It won’t take that long,” she said, bending to pull one leg of the couch from where it’d sunken into the dew-damp grass. “But come on. I can’t do it alone.”

On the count of three they each hefted an end of the couch. Dust puffed into the air and Quinn muscled down a sneeze. They should have left it back in Philly. They could have bought another couch, a new couch, one of those sectionals that have cup holders, USB ports, and heated seats. Replacing the furniture had been another opportunity to start fresh that her dad had ignored. Yes, maybe new stuff would have been an extravagance, but her dad was a doctor and the cost of living out here was—he insisted—unbelievably cheap. But even if it weren’t, she’d rather eat rice and beans for a month than live with musty relics of their past life.

The couch smelled like Mom. Fuck, now she was about to cry.

She looked up from the cushions and caught her father staring at her.

“You’re amazing, you know that, kiddo?”

He might have been clueless sometimes, but Glenn Maybrook was often sweet enough he could convince her to push away the hurt.

“Yeah, yeah, yeah, I’m a rock, the wind beneath your wings. Swing your end around, okay? I’ll go up the front stairs first,” she said.

“No, no, I’ll go backward.” It was a chivalrous gesture, volunteering to walk in the difficult direction. But he was kidding himself. Dr. Glenn Maybrook was all knobby elbows and floppy feet and Costco four-to-a-pack reading glasses.

Her mother was the athlete; she was the one who’d pushed Quinn into sports. Like it was for her mother before her, volleyball was Quinn’s game. She was long-limbed and quick, not the tallest girl on her team but with a jump that could get her shoulders up even with the top of the net. Her coaches had been crushed when she told them that the varsity squad would be without her this year, that she was moving to Kettle Springs. They tried to talk her out of it—as if it were her choice. They even volunteered to talk to her father on her behalf.

But the whole move happened so quickly she didn’t even have a chance to tell them no. Dad had received the offer on a Monday and accepted by the following Friday. Within a week they were packing to go. He didn’t ask her what she wanted. He just told her one day after school, framed it like a move halfway across the country was just something he had to do. Like he was telling her he’d already ordered takeout without asking what she wanted.

It was a package deal, a great opportunity: take the business and get the deed to the house. They could start over with just the turn of a key. “Please, Quinn,” he’d asked when he’d finally thought to ask. “We really need a fresh start.”

And maybe he was right.

For Quinn that was the sole appeal to leaving Philadelphia: a new beginning. Or, if not a new beginning, a place she could detox for a year, recuperate before applying to Penn or Temple or any of the Philly-area colleges.

In Kettle Springs she could keep her head down, avoid the drama. No one here knew Quinn as the girl whose mother slumped low in the bleachers during last year’s regionals, then puked down her chin.

Nobody in Kettle Springs knew how Samantha Maybrook had died.

Quinn could start over.

She hefted the couch through the threshold and set down her side in the living room, where the smell of stale sweat and cat piss sent her dashing to throw open the windows.

“Oh, what the hell, Dad?” she said.

“The last owner must have been a cat person . . . ,” her dad said, rubbing his neck.

“And a fu— a freaking shut-in.”

Dad dropped his end of the couch—probably leaving two more half-moon dings in the already ruined hardwood—and crossed to the opposite side of the room, throwing open the rest of the windows in the hope of welcoming in a cross-breeze.

It doesn’t matter. Give him a break on the little stuff.

With the air fresher, but by no means fresh, Quinn took in her surroundings. They were coming from a three-story apartment in Fairmount. A trinity, three small rooms stacked on top of each other, where it wasn’t Sunday if she couldn’t hear their neighbors arguing. They had a postage stamp of grass that Mom liked to joke was her “garden.” Quinn had never lived in a real house in her life, and yet it felt like she knew the layout of the house on Marshall Lane by instinct. Turn here and there is your den. Up there you’ll find the bedrooms. Bathroom is the second door on the right.

There was a level of comfort in that familiarity.

Quinn pulled the couch over against the far wall. They were going to need more furniture, newer furniture, to distract from both the size of the room and the general sense of misery and neglect you got from standing in it.

While they were out furniture shopping, maybe they’d pick up a blowtorch and some accelerant, too.

“Going to grab another box and check out my new room,” Quinn said. “Always wanted to live in an attic.”

Her dad frowned, and she put a hand up before he could start to apologize for things he didn’t need to apologize for.

“No, really. I mean it. There’s a bedroom upstairs with pitched ceilings, right?” she said, remembering the pictures her dad had shared. Then she squeezed out more forced optimism: “This place is actually kind of cool. It’s got . . . personality.”

“I’m glad you like it,” he said, struggling to open the last window and seeming not to hear the snark in her tone. Dad whacked the frame with the heel of his hand and loosened the crumbling paint enough to open the window an inch. “Needs a little work, but it does have promise, doesn’t it?”

Quinn smiled and nodded. With enough work and love, you could save anything.

Well, almost anything.

The screen door slammed behind her, sounding loose, and Quinn leaped down the front stairs in a single bound, grabbing the first box she came to labeled “Quinn’s stuff.”

The house was not as intuitive as she’d first tricked herself into thinking, but after two closets and the hall bathroom, she found the stairs. The stairwell was narrow and the steps were rickety, cracked, and unfinished. No sneaking out of the house, she figured. Or at least more difficult sneaking out.

She climbed the steps. With no banister, she’d have to be careful at night. She set the box down in the middle of the unfinished wood floor and began to take stock.

Bzzt.

It was a message from Tessa. The text read: Gone but not forgotten. Quinn in our hearts 4eva. Under the message, there was an attachment, but her phone was taking forever trying to download it, the blue progress circle only a quarter filled.

The cat-piss smell in the living room was one thing, but Dad better hurry and get the Wi-Fi sorted.

There was a BANG downstairs, and Quinn rushed to listen at the top stair.

“Dad! You okay?”

“Yeah, yeah, yeah . . . ,” he yelled back, sound carrying disconcertingly well through the empty house. “But we’re going to need a new screen for the door.”

Quinn forced a sigh, then a deep breath, pulse still quick. Glenn Maybrook was wrecking the house already, but at least he hadn’t killed himself. She wasn’t a complete orphan, not yet.

Outside, the sun was rising higher. Quinn pulled open the blinds on the window overlooking Marshall Lane. The effect was immediate, the room warmed with the sunlight.

She turned to get the box she’d brought up and whacked her head on the sloped ceiling as she did.

Fucking pitched ceilings.

Quinn muttered something awful, rubbing her skull and realizing she would need to crawl on her knees if she wanted to touch the north or south walls of her new bedroom.

Below the angle of the ceiling to one side was a vintage metal bedframe and a mattress that looked like it belonged in a movie about the Civil War. There was also a simple desk pushed against the wall under the window that faced Marshall Lane. The red luster of the wood was enough to let Quinn know the desk was real furniture, not cheap particleboard.

The house’s former owner was also the town’s former doctor. Glenn Maybrook had taken over his practice on Main Street. Quinn didn’t realize that Dad had bought the house partially furnished, if that’s what you could call the furniture in the attic, and she suspected neither did he. But whatever. She wasn’t going to touch that mattress with her bare skin, but having a few things already here would make life easier. No trips to IKEA, if there even were IKEAs in the Midwest. No late nights trying to put together bedframes with just an Allen wrench and twenty-seven-step Swedish-language instructions. But no veggie meatballs or lingonberry sauce, either, so it was a give and take.

Quinn checked her phone. The attachment had finally downloaded. Tessa had sent a short loop of her and Jace each emptying a carton of apple juice into the cafeteria’s garbage can. They were pouring one out for Quinn. The text on-screen paraphrased Boyz II Men, something about the end of the road. Quinn smiled, remembering the three of them driving around Philly, singing at the top of their lungs.

She watched the video a few more times, then felt her vision blur. It wasn’t the memory of cruising South Street that made Quinn’s heart hurt, but the fact that she’d be receiving fewer and fewer texts like this over the coming weeks.

It sucked, but the friends were bound to drift apart. She loved Tessa and Jace, but their joke felt too true; soon enough, Quinn would be dead to them.

Quinn sent back a quick lol and allowed her phone to autocorrect to the leaning-sideways-crying-laughing emoji. No. She couldn’t spend the day texting with her old friends. There was work to be done. She needed to get busy starting over.

She put down her phone on the desk and glanced out the window.

Dad was on the front lawn, talking to a kid who looked about her age. He had short dirty-blond hair and was wearing jeans and a plaid button-down shirt that made him look like a lumberjack. Hanging off his shoulder was a camo-colored backpack that appeared mostly held together by safety pins.

Backpack. He’s going to school.

Oh shit! Dad’s meeting him first.

The boy extended a hand, her father shaking it, and laughing at . . . Well, whatever Glenn Maybrook was laughing at, Quinn couldn’t quite tell.

Dad pointed at a box and Quinn could see the boy’s lips ask: “You need some help?”

But her dad waved away the boy’s offer, then said something that—in hindsight—must have been “Don’t worry, my daughter and I can handle it.” Glenn Maybrook half turned and pointed up to the window, and Quinn locked eyes with her new classmate.

Glenn Maybrook waved, goofy as ever, as the boy nodded a restrained hello up to her. Quinn didn’t return the greetings; she just took a big step back into the attic and wished that she could disappear entirely into the gloom. She stood, not breathing, out of their line of sight and counted to thirty. When she dared return to the window, the boy had stopped looking up. He was walking away down their street, backpack hitched to both shoulders.

A moment later, there was the sound of her dad fighting with the broken screen door. “That was the neighbor!” he yelled up. “Don’t worry, I didn’t embarrass you!”

“Not your call to make,” Quinn yelled back from the corner of her empty room.

The floorboards creaked as she crossed the attic room. Everything in this house seemed to creak. And all the creaks meant there would be no hiding from her dad. No staying up late and pacing, picking at her homework until dawn. Which sucked, because that was her process.

Moving to the window at the opposite end of her bedroom, the one facing the backyard, she despaired. There were no blinds, no drapes. But then again: there were also no neighbors facing the back of the house.

The back lawn was uneven and overgrown, with spots of dead grass and a birdbath tilted at such an angle that it probably wasn’t bathing many birds.

The lawn wasn’t the totality of the view, though.

Their property abutted a cornfield. Miles and acres of the crop. Which shouldn’t have surprised Quinn. She’d seen the house on Google Maps. The whole town was encircled by corn.

Quinn looked to the horizon as the cornstalks swayed with the breeze. The corn itself could have been waving hello, or it could have been breathing. Missouri itself a sleeping giant under their new home. Enormous, indifferent. The thought could have been comforting or she could let the idea freak her out, that she was living on the back of a monster named Missouri. It was all a matter of how she chose to look at it. Perspective.

Quinn peered out into the distance. The corn wasn’t all she could see. Out in the fields, breaking the horizon, looming above all like a warning, was a large, dilapidated warehouse and factory. Even small on the horizon, she guessed the structure was five stories tall, not including the chimney stack tilting out the back. The factory’s roof was sagging like an animal with a broken back.

On the side of the building was what looked like a mural. There were plenty of murals in Philadelphia, a whole municipal department dedicated to them, and maybe this would be a nice reminder of home. The mural needed a wash, though; it had been blackened and sooted-over by whatever calamity had ruined the building in the first place.

She took out her phone, unlocked to the camera, and used the digital zoom to get a closer look.

There, painted on the side of the factory, was a clown.

An old-timey clown with a porkpie hat and red, bulbous nose. The clown had faded greasepaint stubble on his chin, and his once ruby-red nose was pocked with blisters from where the paint had bubbled. His painted white face had long gone gray. But his eyes had been more or less untouched by the flames, and something in the way they’d been painted made it seem like the clown was staring straight into her window, straight at Quinn.

Across the top of the factory building was the word “Baypen.” It must have been the name of the company, but Quinn felt no strong desire to research it.

And under the clown was a slogan that was illegible but for the word “EVERYTHING” written in all caps and a looping, fake-fancy scrawl. Quinn snapped a picture of the clown. Maybe she’d send it to Tessa later. Her friend liked creepy stuff, would get a kick out of it. She’d make Quinn feel better about having a pervert clown watching over her. And then she’d tell Quinn what Quinn already knew: that her next task was to find some damn curtains for that window.





Two


Quinn woke to a phone alarm she didn’t remember setting.

She flopped onto her back and blinked for a second at the unfamiliar ceiling, then looked over to the poster that’d come loose overnight and was hanging limply by three corners; the new desk; the boxes still to unpack . . .

Nope. She hadn’t imagined Kettle Springs.

There was a knock on her door, the sudden noise shoring up Quinn’s consciousness.

“I made breakfast,” her dad said. A pause. “It’s downstairs. I’m going to head into the office to see what I’m dealing with, okay?”

There was another pause and Quinn stretched. Her dad was waiting for confirmation she’d heard him.

“Okay. Good luck on your first day.” Yeah, why not? It didn’t cost her anything to be nice. “Love you.”

“Love you, too,” he said as he descended back down her attic stairwell. “And good luck, yourself.” But Quinn didn’t need luck. Only one of them was nervous about the fresh start.

With the house to herself, Quinn showered. The hot and cold knobs were a finicky puzzle that she only halfway understood, but it felt good to be clean again after all the moving and dust. She then dressed and dried her hair. She looked at the flat iron, deciding if she was going to start out the school year with her kinks or without.

It took fifteen minutes, and while some days she hated the iron, today the warm, smooth pull of the device put her at ease. She got the curls from her mom and with her mom they would stay, at least for a little while.

Quinn came downstairs to find that the “breakfast” her dad had mentioned was a chip-clipped bag of Lucky Charms. Dad had unpacked a single bowl and spoon and placed them on the kitchen counter. No milk. It was hard to tell if he was joking or if he thought this actually qualified as “making breakfast.” Before what happened with Mom, Glenn Maybrook had been a funny guy, but now that humor was . . . subtle.

Class started in forty-five minutes. Judging from what she could see of the town out her bedroom window, she estimated a ten-minute walk to school. She could take her time and still be early.

Quinn sat on the floor with her cereal bowl and scrolled on her phone. It didn’t take long to find herself frustrated at both the sluggish speed and that there seemed to be no morning messages from Tessa or Jace. And thanks to time zones, it was an hour later in Philly.

They’ve already forgotten about you. And you haven’t even been gone a full forty-eight hours yet.

She grabbed her empty book bag and set out for school early, just to be moving.

There were two cross streets that would’ve led her toward the school building, and Quinn opted for the one that looked less depressing. The houses were larger, farther apart, all carrying that “cat lady” vibe in both decoration and upkeep. And it wasn’t just the faded porcelain frogs holding signs that read “Bless This Home,” or the strings of Christmas lights drowning in overflowing gutters, or the pots of flowers dying either from neglect or because it was their season to die. No. There was plenty of shabbiness back home, but there was also new life creeping around the edges. Philly ate its rot, was constantly demolishing the old to make way for the new. Looking at these houses, Quinn was struck with the feeling that Kettle Springs had left its best days behind. The town had given up.

Quinn was so lost in her thoughts, she hadn’t noticed her neighbor following her. The boy was two houses behind, on the opposite side of the street. When she looked over her shoulder at him, he caught her eye and started to double-time it to catch up.

Quinn had asked her father about him last night, over dinner, but Glenn Maybrook couldn’t remember the boy’s name. Years of medical schooling, memorizing every major bone, vein, artery in the human body and still he couldn’t hold on to the neighbor’s name for a few hours.

“I want to say it was . . . Rodney?”

“Dad. If that kid’s name was Rodney, then two people in this family are set to have a nervous breakdown.”

They’d both laughed at that. It was a nice moment, even if her father’s iffy memory now felt like one more thing that she ought to be worried about.

“Hey. Hey there.”

Quinn looked across the street. Not-Rodney’s pace slowed to stay parallel with her. Still flannel-clad, the boy waved two fingers to get her attention.

“Hi,” she said. She didn’t feel like talking, but there was no escape now. He crossed the street between parked cars, not bothering to look both ways. Nobody was going anywhere in Kettle Springs anyway.

“I’m Rust. Ruston Vance,” he said, voice friendly but laced with—what?—Midwest dirt and grit? “I live next door. I met your dad yesterday.”

The boy stuck out his hand. Not how she usually greeted classmates, but she took the hand and gave it a firm, if awkward, shake. His hand was callused, something Quinn was unsure she’d ever felt. That and his general demeanor gave the impression he was an adult; maybe that was just the calluses and the crooked—broken and reset?—nose. Or his dirty-blond stubble, now tawnier that she was seeing it up close, but still impressive and fuller than she was used to seeing on guys her age. But then again there was also something goofy about Rust that kept him from being intimidating. Maybe it was the wide smile or the ancient stains on his flannel shirt. Or the shirt itself, its pairing with the camo backpack. Which was it, did he want to blend in or stand out?

“I’m Quinn.” She nodded at the school, the tallest building on the horizon, and added: “It’s my first day.”

“Dr. Maybrook mentioned that.”

Ha. Dr. Maybrook. She snorted back a laugh. Rust scrunched up his face like he’d misspoken.

“Oh, it just sounded very formal. I think of him as Dad.”

“Yeah, well, he seems nice. Seems . . . cool. My dad’s never worn sneakers in his life.”

Quinn remembered the white Reeboks, how happy her dad had been to buy them before the move. More evidence of a new start. For the last fifteen years as an emergency room doc, he avoided white shoes. Blood spatter was a work hazard.

“He has his moments,” she agreed.

“He also mentioned Philadelphia? Is that where you’re from?”

Maybe it was Rust’s downhome presence, or maybe it was that the sky had brightened, but talking to him made Quinn feel better, more relaxed. For a moment, she forgot that she was in Kettle Springs, that she knew no one, that her life was a wreck. Life, Quinn had decided on the long ride out here, was a matter of perspective and attitude. There was a way to look at anything and make it seem okay. She felt sure of it, because . . . well, what other choice did she have?

“It’s a nice little city,” Quinn said about Philly. It was the same attitude she would have taken if she were talking to a tourist, some opposing volleyball player in from New York who just said her hometown was “better than expected.” But putting it that way to Rust made Quinn feel like Philly was somewhere she’d visited once, not the place she’d lived for seventeen years.

“Going to be a big adjustment here . . . ,” Rust said. He was right—the intersection they were passing had white picket fences on either side. The houses closer to the school were nicer, looked less neglected.

“Yeah, well, I’ve decided a change will do me good,” Quinn said, not realizing that was the attitude she wanted to take until she’d said it.

Rust nodded in agreement and they lapsed into silence for a block until they crossed the street in front of the school.

Up ahead, kids were milling, taking a last moment outside before they’d be inside all day. Quinn watched one car, then another, turn into what must’ve been the school’s parking lot, a cracked expanse of blacktop ringed in chain-link fencing.

One of the boys near the handrail was spitting into a water bottle of . . . Quinn felt her gorge rise. Gross, chewing tobacco.

“It will take some getting used to, I’m guessing,” Rust said, picking up where they’d left off, probably seeing her turning green. “But I think you’ll learn to like it. Don’t judge it from how it looks.” He smiled, seeming to indicate himself, then added: “Not totally.”

“What’s there to do around here?” Quinn asked. “I mean, for fun?”

He considered. “I’m probably not the best guy to ask. There’s great fishing and hunting, if you like that sort of thing.”

She blinked at him. She’d fished once on a family trip to Florida, but hunting? Never. Not in a million—

“Ducks’re in season . . . ,” he fumbled.

Quinn blinked again and tried not to wince, but something in her expression must’ve given her away.

“Oh. Right. I’m probably not helping any stereotypes with that answer,” Rust said. “Yeah. Well, there’s also a movie theater on Main Street. The Eureka. Mostly old stuff, but sometimes they get newer flicks. Color even.” He widened his eyes to show he was joking. “There was a frozen yogurt place, too, before Baypen closed down, but that’s gone. You can drive to Jamestown if you want to go to the mall. It’s only about twenty miles, once you get to the highway. It’s a good place for a hang—or so I’ve heard.”

Quinn remembered the window, the dilapidated factory, and the clown. “Baypen, what is that? I saw the factory from my window. What’d they make there . . . clowns?”

“Ha! No, that’s just Frendo, the mascot. Baypen made corn syrup, but, uh, the refinery burned down . . .” Rust trailed off as he looked up ahead at the school building, where crowds of kids had all gathered to wait for the bell but where no one seemed to be waiting for him.

“It’s a long story—”

“Oh yeah?”

“They shipped their product out all across the country. You probably had our syrup and didn’t even know.” He said that last part with a weird amount of pride, like it was his corn syrup. “My father used to work security there. Started when he was my age, actually.”

“Until the fire?”

“No, it closed before that,” Rust said, climbing the stairs two at a time. She moved to catch up, then realized Rust was cutting ahead not to outrun her, but to hold the door.

“The fire happened recently, actually,” Rust said.

“Well, I’ll have to get the long version of that story out of you later,” Quinn said. She pointed a thumb at the front office. “I have to go get set up.”

“For sure,” Rust said, smiling before offering his hand to shake again. Somehow, shaking hands with Rust felt less like she’d made a new friend and more like her first job interview. “Maybe I’ll see ya in class. But probably not unless you signed up for metal shop?”

She gave him a shrug, tried for her best irrepressible smile: “Who knows? Maybe I did.”

Turning, she nodded goodbye and pushed into the front office.

The woman behind the desk was squinting at an old computer screen, the colors warped and faded. Quinn cleared her throat and the woman looked up, haggard and unhappy.

“How can I help you, young lady?” the woman asked. A friendly statement rendered somehow . . . not friendly.

“Hi. Quinn Maybrook. My dad called. I’m new.”

The woman didn’t speak; instead she plucked a manila envelope from her desk. “Here’s your schedule. Good luck,” she said. Looking Quinn up and down, she gave a scoff that said You’re going to need it and turned back to her emails.

Oooookay. Quinn picked up the envelope and hurried out of the office to open it.

Her locker wasn’t hard to locate, but the combination inside the envelope didn’t seem to work.

29 . . . 6 . . . and . . .

“Did you hear?” someone said as they walked her way.

Oh no. She was already being gossiped about as the new kid. The new kid from the city. Which—and she didn’t want to sound conceited here—was probably big news.

“Of course, I heard!” someone yelled in response. “Everybody’s heard.”

“I can’t believe they let him back!”

Wait. Him?

“I can’t believe he came back, but I’m glad he did.” The first voice returned, settling at a locker across from hers. “I mean, it’s not like anyone can prove he did anything.”

“I’m sure there’s evidence. But my dad says who’s going to press charges? I mean, his dad owned the place. More than anythin’, I’m pissed that he only got a three-day suspension.”

“Yeah. I got two days once for a shoving match.”

Quinn was so engrossed in eavesdropping she didn’t realize she was staring into her locker door, motionless like a lunatic, until a voice beside her said:

“You have to start at zero.”

“Huh?” Quinn turned to the speaker.

A girl with close-cropped hair, dark at the roots and light at the top, and a hoop nose ring—the septum, not the nostril—was suddenly in Quinn’s personal space. The girl snatched the combination from Quinn’s hand and began to read.

“They all start at zero for some reason, but they don’t put instructions on the printout,” the girl said. She was wearing a Thrasher Magazine sweatshirt and cargo shorts, the kind built for function rather than fashion, but on her, they seemed somehow fashionable.

“There you go,” the girl said, pulling down with a sharp CLACK and letting gravity swing Quinn’s locker open.

“Oh. Thanks,” Quinn said, realizing that she didn’t have anything to put into the locker, not yet. She’d been opening it to make sure she could, to give her something to do before the bell. But now she felt too self-conscious to just close it up again.

“I’m Quinn,” Quinn offered lamely. The punk girl seemed content to let the interaction be over, but Quinn wasn’t sure she wanted it to be.

“People call me Ginger.” And before Quinn could ask why, she added: “My hair used to be lighter.”

“Oh.”

“You new?”

“Is it that obvious?” Quinn asked, smiling.

Unlike the woman in the front office, Ginger gave no up-and-down, didn’t seem interested in Quinn at all, merely looked Quinn in the eyes and offered: “It’s a small town.”

Okay. A little rude, Quinn thought. But Ginger had helped Quinn open her locker, which had been a nice gesture. In a hallway where the kids were dressed well enough to look like an ad for American Eagle, Ginger presented an intriguing alternative. At the very least she looked like she came from an ad for a different store at the mall.

But before Quinn could think of something else to say, the doors down the hall slammed open.

All heads turned as two boys entered the hallway.

The boy in front, while on the short and stringier side, held himself with confidence that made him seem somehow bigger than the meathead marching in lockstep behind him.

Everyone in the hallway was watching the two boys—even the students who’d turned to face their lockers and friends, the kids trying to look like they weren’t looking.

No. Not the pair. They were just watching the boy out front. The other guy, big as he was, a neck so thick that it wasn’t a neck at all, just an extension of the guy’s head, that guy was simply set dressing.

“Cole . . . ,” someone whispered. That must have been his name. No last name yet, just Cole. Or maybe that was a last name.

Halfway down the hall, Cole looked to Quinn, effortlessly finding her in the crowd, his glare lingering. He had a button nose, a puckish grin, and perfectly tousled dark hair. There were circles under his eyes that could have been from partying or lack of sleep or both, but he wore the fatigue like makeup. His shirt was unbuttoned enough for Quinn to glimpse the edge of his undershirt, a white V-neck. As he passed, she took note of his jeans, distressed around the knees, near the pockets, and fitting like jeans should.

Standing in Cole’s wake, Quinn heard someone whisper: “My mom says she can’t believe he’s not dead.”

And someone else added, “My uncle says he ought to be.”

The Neanderthal trailing behind Cole seemed to overhear that last comment. The big guy sneered in that direction, his job to squash all Cole criticism. He wore a rumpled football jersey with a picture of a mean-looking, steroidal goat on it. It must’ve been the Kettle Springs High logo, blue and gold the KSH colors.

Quinn watched the pair of them go. Cole bounded up the stairs at the far end of the hallway. His bodyguard-friend was slower, using the handrail like he was too big to win the fight against gravity without it.

“Wow. Who was that?” Quinn asked, trying to get Ginger to look up from working on her own lock.

“Cole Hill. We used to be friends. Back when my hair was lighter,” Ginger said, then tossed an eye to the side and smirked. “And, yeah, he’s pretty cute,” she said, pausing before adding: “for an arsonist.”





Three


Quinn was late to her first class. Not a good start, but how the hell was room 207 located on the first floor?

Her schedule listed the class as “Science.” Quinn had no idea what kind of science she was about to walk into. She took a deep breath outside the closed door for room 207, grabbed the knob, and . . .

Inside, the lights were off and a diagram of a plant cell was being projected onto a pull-down screen at the front of the room. She’d taken bio twice now, both in middle school and high school. The transparency looked like it dated to before she was born, so she doubted Kettle Springs High was offering some kind of super-duper AP upgrade.

In the darkness, faces turned to Quinn. Her plan for today had been to keep a low profile, and then repeat that for around two hundred more school days, until she was packing for college. It was only day one, and she was already doing a shitty job.

“Close the door,” someone yelled, light from the hallway streaming in behind her.

“As I was saying,” her new science teacher said, glowering at her. He didn’t ask for a late pass, didn’t ask for her name, so Quinn stumbled her way to the only open seat: the front row, next to the dusty hot vent of the projector bulb.

“Just because it’s Founder’s Day Weekend doesn’t mean there won’t be a test on Monday,” the teacher said, crossing thin arms across his chest.

The classroom around Quinn groaned as one. “But Mr. Vern . . . ,” someone muttered.

“Stop it. Stop that,” Mr. Vern said, stepping into the spotlight of the projector, his mustached upper lip quivering. Mr. Vern wasn’t wearing a sweater vest, but Quinn felt sure that the man owned more than a few. He uncrossed his arms. “We’re a month into the school year. Exams happen. Time for all you juniors and seniors to grow up and deal with it.” Juniors and seniors? Wait, was this a mixed class? Were some of the kids around Quinn in the darkness juniors?

The class groaned again. Someone in the back, hidden in the dark, let slip more loudly than he probably meant to, “What a dick . . .”

“Okay,” Mr. Vern was quick to snap, leaning forward. “If that’s going to be your attitude, clear your desks and we’ll have the test today instead.”

Sighs and scoffs surrounded her.

“Mr. Vern?” a voice asked above the murmurs. Quinn turned to see a hand raised, phosphorescent pink nail polish glinting as Quinn’s eyes adjusted to the dim room.

“Yes, Janet,” Mr. Vern said, exasperated. Quinn couldn’t see much, but from the outline of her profile Janet had smooth skin and glistening lips. A valley girl who’d found herself in the wrong valley?

“Well, I’ve been looking over the syllabus,” Janet began, pausing dramatically to flip open the large, organized three-ring binder in front of her. The binder was as well put together as its owner, a reflection of exactitude. “And it says that the first exam will cover nutrition and, uh, we haven’t even touched on that yet. Nutrition is chapter 12 in the textbook. Were we expected to be reading out of order?”

“That, that—” Mr. Vern started, his hands flailing as if trying to grab the answer out of the air just in front of him. “That must be a misprint. Must be from an old syllabus.”

“Oh, I figured that. Just wanted to double-check,” Janet said, a smile in her voice like she’d just won the argument. No further questions, Your Honor. Quinn suspected the point wasn’t to be right so much as it was to fluster the teacher.

“So, wait,” another voice cut in, this one behind Quinn’s left shoulder. She turned in her seat and saw the meathead guy who was walking behind Cole earlier. He somehow looked even bigger in the harsh shadows cast by the projector lamp. It was like he and his desk had fused together in the dark and become one big inky blot. “Mr. Vern. You mean to say that we aren’t going to be tested on nutrition?”

“No,” the teacher said with a sigh. “No, Tucker, you aren’t.”

“That’s not fair! I’ve been studying the wrong thing, then.”

“You haven’t been studying anything!” Mr. Vern shot back. With a few stomps, the teacher crossed the room and flicked on the overhead lights. There was a smile on his lips as the class grumbled against the sudden burst of the fluorescent bulbs. Quinn thought he meant the lights to seem defiant, but really, to her, it felt like an admission of defeat, the house lights brightening when the show was over.

“Mr. Vern!” Janet said, gasping. With the lights on, Quinn was surprised to see that Janet didn’t look at all like what she’d pictured from her voice. She was Asian, for one thing—the first hint of difference among what to this point had seemed like a pretty buttermilk school. Janet’s makeup was there not to conceal, but to accentuate natural beauty. She had shoulder-length black hair, a lightness around the edges that was either highlights or sun-kiss, and a cute, round face that probably helped her get away with gaslighting her teachers like this. “You can’t say he hasn’t been studying! You know that I tutor Tucker after school.”

“It’s true,” the girl behind Janet said. Quinn bounced from Janet to the girl. She had blond ringlets and a side ponytail. Chewing gum snapping. White jeans and a T-shirt so tight it might’ve been body paint. She looked how Quinn had expected the popular girls in Kettle Springs to look, how she had imagined Janet looking, from her voice and lipstick.

“Ronnie. Please stop helping,” Mr. Vern said, sighing, before swiveling around back to Janet and Tucker. “I . . . I’m sure you do tutor him, Janet, but the test has been on the syllabus since the start of the year . . .” Dark spots had grown under the teacher’s arms as he stood in the heat of the projector’s spotlight and struggled to control the class. Quinn didn’t usually have much sympathy for teachers, but she could see her dad reflected in this man’s anxiety.

“It’s true,” Tucker said. “Mr. Vern. I’ve been studying all about nutrition.” The boy seemed to strain for some further proof, scratching one side of his weeks-old buzz cut. “Learning about what’s, uh, good to eat.” Mr. Vern looked away from the speaking boy and the lamp of the overhead projector, trying to gather himself.

“Oh come on,” a final voice yelled from the back of the room. “Just move the test already, Mr. V, and let’s get on with class.”

There, in the back corner behind her, a seat chosen to be out of the way or so the student could keep an eye on everyone in the room: Cole Hill.

Quinn hadn’t noticed him on the way in.

He had a pen in his hand and a notebook open in front of him. He seemed ready to work if the world would let him.

“Oh, is that what you think I should do, Mr. Hill?”

“I’m just saying . . . ,” Cole began, trailing off as soon as he realized that he had the whole class’s attention. “I’m just saying,” he repeated, continuing more quietly, “we’re wasting time. We should just push forward with the lesson.”

“Well, now that I have your permission, maybe I will,” Mr. Vern said, then pointed both hands out, overlapping accusatory fingers. “But you and your friends won’t be around to see it.”

“What?” Janet blurted, a record skip in her steely, lip-glossed composure.

“You’re out, Ms. Murray.” Mr. Vern pointed to Janet. “You are disrupting this class on purpose by arguing about the test. You and Ronnie. Out. Tucker, too. Gather your books. Cole, you too. Go to the in-school room. Now. Have fun wasting your own time. Not your classmates’ time.”

“I was trying to help! This is bullshit,” Cole said, standing.

“You know what’s—” Mr. Vern stopped himself. He was upset, shaking. In the slapped silence of the classroom, Quinn swore she could hear his teeth grinding. “You will not talk to me that way. What’s upsetting is that you’re all”—he took a beat to point at each student who’d interrupted him—“you’re all out of control. You think the world was built for your amusement. And for years we’ve—the town has just taken it. But people are waking up. That you’re a b-b-blight on this community.” He took a deep breath, tried to slow his stutter. “And you’re not ruining my lessons for a moment longer.”

Cole was standing now, closing his notebook, clicking his pen. “Okay, sure, fine. We’re going.”

The fifteen or so kids who weren’t being sent out of the classroom all stared at Cole as he hitched up his bag and exited without further protest, followed close behind by Tucker.

The tension in the room was so thick, so palpable, as the rest of the group made their way out that Quinn couldn’t help it: she laughed.

It just came out. A small giggle. A perverse, nervous, involuntary response.

“Oh, this is funny!?” Mr. Vern whirled, pointing to Quinn.

It wasn’t funny. The tension, the absurdity of the teacher’s tantrum, the very fact that she was so far, so surreally distant, from her home: the sound slipped out before she could cover her mouth.

The teacher moved to his desk to consult what must have been a roll sheet. “Maybrook? You find this funny?” Quinn felt the blood drain from her face. She didn’t know how to answer—or if she was even supposed to. “No, this isn’t funny. This isn’t one bit funny. This is insane! Your new friends are an impediment to learning at this school and that’s just in class. In the real world, on the internet, they are a . . . a . . .” Blight. She filled in, when he couldn’t find the word. Mr. Vern swallowed hard.

Okay. Maybe Quinn had misjudged the situation. This was about something bigger than senioritis, fucking with a nerdy teacher, and not wanting to take a test. “I, for one, am fed up with their antics, with their videos and their . . . their . . . their bullshit.” There it was, it was out, the word he’d so clearly wanted to say earlier. He held three fingers to his lips, then hissed: “They’re probably filming this right now. Isn’t that right, Janet?”

If they were, this guy was done. A filmed tantrum like this was the kind of thing that parents brought to school boards.

“Isn’t it, Janet?” Mr. Vern repeated.

Janet and Ronnie had been hovering at the doorway, Cole and Tucker already out in the hall.

“Go! Detention! Now!!”

“All Tucker did was ask a question,” Janet complained.

“A question! A question—right. Well, you’ve got in-school suspension. Do you want to make it out of school?”

Janet threw her hands up, resigned, started back out the door.

“Wait. Come back here. Give me your phone. Now! You can pick it up at the end of the day.”

“You can’t do that!” Janet snapped. “That’s private property!”

“We weren’t even filming!” Ronnie seconded.

“Yours too,” Mr. Vern said, beckoning Ronnie to return back down the center aisle.

The two girls fumed, but both handed over their phones to Mr. Vern.

“And take your new friend with you.” Mr. Vern tapped the edge of Quinn’s desk. “Make sure she gets down to the ISS room without getting lost. I’ll be calling the office to let them know you’re coming.”

“Me?” Quinn asked, still astonished at the sudden turn her morning had taken.

“Yes, you, Maybrook. Go giggle with the cool kids outside of my classroom. In fact . . .” Mr. Vern seemed to have an epiphany, his mood manic. “Janet, Ronnie?” he asked.

The two girls stood at the doorway, arms crossed.

“Tell the boys, who are no doubt standing right outside, snickering at me. Tell them you’re all banned from Founder’s Day,” Mr. Vern said, turning to the rest of the class with an Ain’t I a stinker? look on his face.

There was silence in the room, nobody else wanting to react and earn themselves a ban from . . . whatever Founder’s Day was.

“Like you have the power to do that. It’s a public event,” Janet said. Not a whine, just a statement of facts. Her phone was private property, this was a public event: Quinn had met girls like Janet before. Amateur lawyers.

Quinn didn’t know what Founder’s Day was and didn’t care, not at this moment. She was being tossed out of class. She repeated that fact to herself in numb disbelief. Quinn grabbed her bag and stood to leave, her hands and arms not feeling like her own. She’d never gotten in real trouble—nothing worse than a few skipped gym classes marred her record at her old school, and with those there had been no punishment: she was a volleyball star.

“Yes, tell yourself that I can’t,” Mr. Vern said, his voice more even than it had been. “I’ll let the sheriff know to be on the lookout for you and your friends. That you’re banned. That you’re unwelcome at the ‘public event.’”

“Whatever,” Janet said, shrugging off the proclamation. She exited the room, Ronnie in tow.

Still in a daze, Quinn followed them.

“Come on, new girl,” Cole said, waiting for them all outside the class. Mr. Vern was right—he’d been listening and smiling. He didn’t seem at all troubled by what had transpired.

Cole’s smile put Quinn at ease. Or, at least, it calmed her enough that she no longer felt like she might cry.

“Follow me,” he said, closing the distance between them, leaving his crew behind.

His hand touched the small of her back, guiding, gentle:

“We’ll show you the way.”

“Fuck me!” Tucker said. “I mean, who cares about Founder’s Day, but if they call home, my mom’s never going to give me the car on Saturday.”

Quinn suspected that the in-school suspension room hadn’t been built to be the in-school suspension room. Instead of anything official-looking, it was a bare, unused classroom. They took chairs down from stacks in the back of the room to have a place to sit. Despite Mr. Vern’s threat of “alerting the office,” there was no adult supervision and seemingly none forthcoming.

Security at KSH seemed lax, but maybe that was because back home at Quinn’s school, there were metal detectors at every entrance, security guards with zip ties poking from their back pockets.

Even without disciplinary infrastructure and climate officers, Cole, Janet, Tucker, and Ronnie all acted like they knew the drill for in-school suspension.

They took their seats to the front of the room, arranging the desks there in a half circle.

“You can’t miss the party,” Janet told Tucker. “You’re my ride.”

“Mine too,” Ronnie said. She had taken down her side ponytail and was now in the process of putting it back up on the other side, swapping out the neon band with one of the others she wore at her wrists. “I mean. It’s our party—”

“Well, you helped. It was Janet’s idea,” Tucker interrupted.

“I know,” Ronnie continued, pivoting. “Man up. Tell your mom, you’re taking the car. What’s she going to do?”

“She’ll kill me,” Tucker said. “And anyway, what do you care, Miss Queen?” He said “Miss” like “Mizzz” and Quinn was unsure if it was a last name or a pet name. “Matt’ll drive you. Probably. If he didn’t just redo the seats.”

Ronnie pouted. “Sucks. I had a cute outfit ready for Founder’s Day.”

Quinn wondered if the ban extended to herself. Or if her punishment was just this detention. She could ask Mr. Vern later, if she stopped by his classroom, ready to apologize. But it was probably better to let it be for today, have a fresh start next class.

“We’re still going. What about the phones?” Janet asked.

“Oh,” Ronnie said, flipping an iPhone out of the waistband of her white jeans.

“Yes, girl!” Janet smiled.

“I hope Mr. Vern has fun with old 6s.”

“Holy shit,” Quinn said. Again, she’d wanted to remain an observer, hadn’t presumed to angle her own desk into the group, didn’t know if she wanted to, but she couldn’t hide her amazement. “Did you really give the teacher decoy phones?”

Ronnie smiled for a moment, taking pride, but then her grin disappeared, a look of realization that Quinn was the new girl. “I’m sorry, was I talking to you?”

“Be nice,” Cole said. It was the first time he’d spoken since they’d arrived.

Ronnie snarled, a Don’t tell me what to do look, but then turned to Quinn and apologized. “Sorry. That was childish.”

“Maybrook, was it?” Cole asked. “Kicked out of class on your first day. That’s a hell of a statement.”

“We got a badass over here . . . ,” Janet muttered. It didn’t sound like a compliment, but it didn’t quite sound like an insult, either.

Quinn ignored her.

“It’s Quinn. And it’s not usually how I like to start off. But the guy went crazy. He should be fired . . .”

“Yeah, Mr. Vern’s a bit high-strung,” Cole explained. The others nodded. “But he’s old-school Kettle Springs.”

“KSOG,” Tucker offered.

“He grew up here. Never left. He thinks everything was better before kids started wearing ripped jeans in like 1983.”

“And that satanic music they all love,” Janet said. Ronnie rolled her eyes in response. What was their deal? Not lockstep agreement like most mean girls, that was for sure. Competition with each other? Over Cole himself, maybe?

“Dude kicked me out of class once for wearing a Vikings cap,” Tucker cut in to add. “On game day.”

Well. That didn’t seem weird to Quinn. Dress codes were dress codes. Or was that a city thing? There didn’t seem to be a strong gang presence in Kettle Springs.

“Did you catch any of his rant on there?” Janet asked Ronnie, motioning to the phone.

“No! I wasn’t even filming! He really did throw us out for nothing!”

“You really missed it?” Cole said. “And look where it got us.” He motioned around the room.

“Not to mention the fact that if we’re banned from Founder’s Day, I’m now missing out on a churro,” Tucker said.

Ronnie looked ready to apologize like before, but instead Janet interrupted and doubled down.

“Oh, like we’re not going anyway. And how were we supposed to know Mr. Vern was going to flip out over something so small?” Janet said. “That would have played well on the channel, too. Did you see how red he was? I thought he was going to pass out . . .”

“You have a YouTube channel?” Quinn asked, finally admitting to herself that simply dipping her toes into the social scene wasn’t going to be possible. She was in it now. The deep end. The five of them were doing time together . . .

“Yeah, we have a YouTube channel,” Ronnie corrected.

“They used to have a YouTube channel,” Cole said, a further tweak. Distancing himself.

“They,” Janet scoffed. “We still do. Even if some people don’t like to be on camera as much as they used to.” Janet nodded at Cole, both of them looking different flavors of exasperated.

“What kind of channel?” Quinn asked Janet, breaking the moment of awkwardness.

“Stunts, pranks, we have—had, whatever—almost six thousand subscribers. A few videos have gotten, like, fifty thousand views. We’re growing. Or at least were until a little over a week ago.” Another withering look to Cole. “Seems like we might really be done now.”

While Ronnie and Tucker seemed to be under the boy’s thumb, Janet didn’t seem to give a shit. Quinn liked that.

“Check it out,” Tucker said, handing over his phone. “There’s no Wi-Fi here, but I’ve got the page cached.”

Quinn scrolled through videos with names like: “Roof Jump on a Moped—Must Watch!!”; “Old Lady Freak-Out—Waitress goes H.A.M.”; and “KILLER CLOWN—HAUNTED BARN STUNT TrY Not to LauGH :-D”

The last video’s thumbnail showed a familiar-looking clown in a porkpie hat, grasping an oversize plastic sickle and sliding out from behind a barn door.

“That clown,” Quinn said, recognizing the hat more than anything else.

“You’ve seen him before?” Cole said, surprised, happy.

“Yeah, I meant to ask someone what was up with him”—she thought of Rust, but didn’t say his name, as it didn’t seem like her neighbor fit with this crowd—“I’ve seen his face around town. On buildings and stuff.”

“Oh,” Cole said, seemingly disappointed that she didn’t know the clown from their videos. “The town loves Frendo. He’s, like, our mascot. But he’s lame, so we’ve been trying to give him a makeover. Rehabilitate his image. Make him a little more . . . homicidal.”

“That reminds me,” Janet said, a sidebar with Tucker that was only a little distracting and rude. “You should get in touch with Dave Sellers, see if he’ll trade shifts with you tomorrow.”

“Shifts?” Tucker looked confused for a moment. “Ah. Gotcha,” he said, figuring out whatever she was asking. “I don’t think the guy has a phone, but I can try to find him around town. Five bucks and he’ll hand over the suit.”

“Whatever you two are planning,” Cole said, pointing between Janet and Tucker, “leave me out of it.”

“So what happened? Why aren’t you making videos anymore?” Quinn asked, trying to get the conversation back on track.

When he spoke about the channel, it was obvious that Cole was proud of their work.

Nobody answered.

Tucker, Ronnie, and Janet squirmed, looked to Cole as he thought about it.

“We had an incident last week.” Cole paused. “I got drunker than I should have.”

Tucker coughed, put a hand on Cole’s desktop. “That’s one way to put it, man. But you didn’t mean it. We all know that.”

The hand moved to Cole’s shoulder and he shrugged Tucker away. “I’m good,” Cole said to the bigger boy. Tucker looked ready to stand, give Cole a full shoulder rub, if it was requested. It was extreme, even for sports bro fraternity, and Quinn had to wonder if Tucker knew how sad his hero worship looked.

“He burned down the factory,” Janet said, cutting through the fog of Tucker’s coddling.

The pieces of town gossip she’d gotten from Rust and then Ginger began to knit together, giving Quinn a better picture of what was going on.

“It was my family’s factory,” Cole corrected, as if that made it less of a crime. “My dad’s at least. And it had been empty for over a year. At the time of the fire.”

He’s pretty cute, for an arsonist. Ginger’s words came back to Quinn.

“No one got hurt or anything,” Tucker said, coming to his friend’s defense. “It just got out of control, but the way everyone is reacting, you’d think no one in this town ever threw a rager before.” Tucker was clearly used to standing up for Cole, no matter what.

Cole looked over and up to make eye contact with the big kid. He smiled. Even beaten and sad—and with that unattractive air of I’m the boss—Quinn could tell that Cole had the capacity for kindness. Or at least she hoped he did, that she wasn’t just developing a crush, ready to give more slack to someone who . . . maybe just admitted to a major felony?

“I made a mistake,” Cole said, voice soft. “I fucked up. But in my defense, the factory’s been boarded up too long and all it was doing was sitting around and slowly rotting. It was a stupid reminder of the way things used to be. I’m not sad it’s gone.”

“Mostly gone,” Janet corrected him. That was right, the inside might have been burned out, but the structure was still standing. Quinn almost told them that she could see Baypen from her bedroom window.

“Say what you will about Kettle Springs . . . ,” Ronnie seconded. “The volunteer firefighters are on point.”

“Fine, mostly gone,” Cole said, glaring at Janet.

“Cool,” Quinn said, then, reaching for a change of subject, a way into this group she wasn’t sure getting involved with was a good idea: “So, where’d you shoot the creepy clown video?”

“At Tillerson’s barn—” Cole stopped mid-thought, mid-word, and snapped his fingers, pointed to Janet.

“Don’t look at me, it’s open invite.”

“That’s very neighborly of you, Janet,” Tucker said.

“What she means to say is she’s spent most of this week putting together a party,” Cole explained, some life coming back into his sad-dog eyes. “And you’re definitely coming.”

She looked at the room around her, everyone seeming to be ready for what came next, for her answer, different levels of involvement on their faces. Everyone except Ronnie, who was taking great pains to look like she didn’t care.

“I am?” Quinn asked, buying time for him to elaborate.

Cole’s invitation was phrased like a command, but somehow it felt like a challenge.

“You bet you are. Day after Founder’s Day.”

Founder’s Day. She wanted to ask what it even was. Whether they thought Mr. Vern had formally banned her from the “public event” like he had them, but there was no time.

Cole looked to Janet, tenderness in the expression. He nodded.

Go on.

“You saw a little bit of it, in class. What it’s like around here,” Janet started. “There’s so many people—and Mr. Vern’s the least of them—trying to shut us up, trying to make us who they want us to be. Trying to tape our mouths shut and tie us in bubble wrap.”

“But for one night we’re going to say fuck ’em,” Cole said, picking up the energy. “We’re going to do it where nobody’s around to stop us. Out in the corn, drink and smoke and do—”

“All the things that make Kettle Springs great,” Ronnie added.

“Kettle Springs is great?” Tucker sneered.

“It could be,” Janet said, suddenly wistful. “It will be for one night.”

“And you,” Cole said, winking at Quinn, “cannot miss it. Not if it’s the last thing you do.”
