4
THE BLACK THING
THE TREES WERE LASHED into a violent frenzy. Meg screamed and
clutched at Calvin, and Mrs Which’s authoritative voice called out, “Qquiett,
chilldd!”
Did a shadow fall across the moon, or did the moon simply go out,
extinguished as abruptly and completely as a candle? There was still the
sound of leaves, a terrified, terrifying rushing. All light was gone. Darkness
was complete. Suddenly the wind was gone, and all sound. Meg felt that
Calvin was being torn from her. When she reached for him her fingers
touched nothing.
She screamed out, “Charles!” and whether it was to help him or for him to
help her, she did not know. The word was flung back down her throat and she
choked on it.
She was completely alone.
She had lost the protection of Calvin’s hand. Charles was nowhere, either
to save or to turn to. She was alone in a fragment of nothingness. No light, no
sound, no feeling. Where was her body? She tried to move in her panic, but
there was nothing to move. Just as light and sound had vanished, she was
gone, too. The corporeal Meg simply was not.
Then she felt her limbs again. Her legs and arms were tingling faintly, as
though they had been asleep. She blinked her eyes rapidly, but though she
herself was somehow back, nothing else was. It was not as simple as
darkness, or absence of light. Darkness has a tangible quality; it can be moved
through and felt; in darkness you can bark your shins; the world of things still
exists around you. She was lost in a horrifying void.
It was the same way with the silence. This was more than silence. A deaf
person can feel vibrations. Here there was nothing to feel.
Suddenly she was aware of her heart beating rapidly within the cage of her
ribs. Had it stopped before? What had made it start again? The tingling in her
arms and legs grew stronger, and suddenly she felt movement. This
movement, she felt, must be the turning of the earth, rotating on its axis,
traveling its elliptic course about the sun. And this feeling of moving with the
earth was somewhat like the feeling of being in the ocean, out in the ocean
beyond this rising and falling of the breakers, lying on the moving water,
pulsing gently with the swells, and feeling the gentle, inexorable tug of the
moon.
I am asleep; I am dreaming, she thought. I’m having a nightmare. I want to
wake up. Let me wake up.
“Well!” Charles Wallace’s voice said. “That was quite a trip! I do think you
might have warned us.”
Light began to pulse and quiver. Meg blinked and shoved shakily at her
glasses and there was Charles Wallace standing indignantly in front of her, his
hands on his hips. “Meg!” he shouted. “Calvin! Where are you?”
She saw Charles, she heard him, but she could not go to him. She could not
shove through the strange, trembling light to meet him.
Calvin’s voice came as though it were pushing through a cloud. “Well, just
give me time, will you? I’m older than you are.”
Meg gasped. It wasn’t that Calvin wasn’t there and then that he was. It
wasn’t that part of him came first and then the rest of him followed, like a
hand and then an arm, an eye and then a nose. It was a sort of shimmering, a
looking at Calvin through water, through smoke, through fire, and then there
he was, solid and reassuring.
“Meg!” Charles Wallace’s voice came. “Meg! Calvin, where’s Meg?”
“I’m right here,” she tried to say, but her voice seemed to be caught at its
source.
“Meg!” Calvin cried, and he turned around, looking about wildly.
“Mrs Which, you haven’t left Meg behind, have you?” Charles Wallace
shouted.
“If you’ve hurt Meg, any of you—” Calvin started, but suddenly Meg felt a
violent push and a shattering, as though she had been thrust through a wall of
glass.
“Oh, there you are!” Charles Wallace said, and rushed over to her and
hugged her.
“But where am I?” Meg asked breathlessly, relieved to hear that her voice
was now coming out of her in more or less a normal way.
She looked around rather wildly. They were standing in a sunlit field, and
the air about them was moving with the delicious fragrance that comes only
on the rarest of spring days when the sun’s touch is gentle and the apple
blossoms are just beginning to unfold. She pushed her glasses up on her nose
to reassure herself that what she was seeing was real.
They had left the silver glint of a biting autumn evening; and now around
them everything was golden with light. The grasses of the field were a tender
new green, and scattered about were tiny, multicolored flowers. Meg turned
slowly to face a mountain reaching so high into the sky that its peak was lost
in a crown of puffy white clouds. From the trees at the base of the mountain
came a sudden singing of birds. There was an air of such ineffable peace and
joy all around her that her heart’s wild thumping slowed.
“When shall we three meet again,
In thunder, lightning, or in rain,”
came Mrs Who’s voice. Suddenly the three of them were there, Mrs Whatsit
with her pink stole askew; Mrs Who with her spectacles gleaming; and Mrs
Which still little more than a shimmer. Delicate multicolored butterflies were
fluttering about them, as though in greeting.
Mrs Whatsit and Mrs Who began to giggle, and they giggled until it
seemed that, whatever their private joke was, they would fall down with the
wild fun of it. The shimmer seemed to be laughing, too. It became vaguely
darker and more solid; and then there appeared a figure in a black robe and a
black peaked hat, beady eyes, a beaked nose, and long gray hair; one bony
claw clutched a broomstick.
“Wwell, jusstt tto kkeepp yyou girrlls happpy,” the strange voice said, and
Mrs Whatsit and Mrs Who fell into each other’s arms in gales of laughter.
“If you ladies have had your fun, I think you should tell Calvin and Meg a
little more about all this,” Charles Wallace said coldly. “You scared Meg half
out of her wits, whisking her off this way without any warning.”
“Finxerunt animi, raro et perpauca loquentis,” Mrs Who intoned. “Horace.
To action little, less to words inclined.”
“Mrs Who, I wish you’d stop quoting!” Charles Wallace sounded very
annoyed.
Mrs Whatsit adjusted her stole. “But she finds it so difficult to verbalize,
Charles dear. It helps her if she can quote instead of working out words of her
own.”
“Anndd wee mussttn’tt looose ourr sensses of hummorr,” Mrs Which said.
“Thee onnlly wway tto ccope withh ssometthingg ddeadly sseriouss iss tto
ttry tto trreatt itt a llittlle lligghtly.”
“But that’s going to be hard for Meg,” Mrs Whatsit said. “It’s going to be
hard for her to realize that we are serious.”
“What about me?” Calvin asked.
“The life of your father isn’t at stake,” Mrs Whatsit told him.
“What about Charles Wallace, then?”
Mrs Whatsit’s unoiled-door-hinge voice was warm with affection and
pride. “Charles Wallace knows. Charles Wallace knows that it’s far more than
just the life of his father. Charles Wallace knows what’s at stake.”
“But remember,” Mrs Who said, “
. Euripides. Nothing is hopeless; we must hope for
everything.”
“Where are we now, and how did we get here?” Calvin asked.
“Uriel, the third planet of the star Malak in the spiral nebula Messier 101.”
“This I’m supposed to believe?” Calvin asked indignantly.
“Aas yyou llike,” Mrs Which said coldly.
For some reason Meg felt that Mrs Which, despite her looks and ephemeral
broomstick, was someone in whom one could put complete trust. “It doesn’t
seem any more peculiar than anything else that’s happened.”
“Well, then, someone just tell me how we got here!” Calvin’s voice was
still angry and his freckles seemed to stand out on his face. “Even traveling at
the speed of light, it would take us years and years to get here.”
“Oh, we don’t travel at the speed of anything,” Mrs Whatsit explained
earnestly. “We tesser. Or you might say, we wrinkle.”
“Clear as mud,” Calvin said.
Tesser, Meg thought. Could that have anything to do with Mother’s
tesseract?
She was about to ask when Mrs Which started to speak, and one did not
interrupt when Mrs Which was speaking. “Mrs Whatsit iss yyoungg andd
nnaïve.”
“She keeps thinking she can explain things in words,” Mrs Who said. “Qui
plus sait, plus se tait. French, you know. The more a man knows, the less he
talks.”
“But she has to use words for Meg and Calvin,” Charles reminded Mrs
Who. “If you brought them along, they have a right to know what’s going
on.”
Meg went up to Mrs Which. In the intensity of her question she had
forgotten all about the tesseract. “Is my father here?”
Mrs Which shook her head. “Nnott heeere, Megg. Llett Mrs Whatsitt
expllainn. Shee isss yyoungg annd thee llanguage of worrds iss eeasierr fforr
hherr thann itt iss fforr Mrs Whoo andd mee.”
“We stopped here,” Mrs Whatsit explained, “more or less to catch our
breaths. And to give you a chance to know what you’re up against.”
“But what about Father?” Meg asked. “Is he all right?”
“For the moment, love, yes. He’s one of the reasons we’re here. But you
see, he’s only one.”
“Well, where is he? Please take me to him!”
“We can’t, not yet,” Charles said. “You have to be patient, Meg.”
“But I’m not patient!” Meg cried passionately. “I’ve never been patient!”
Mrs Who’s glasses shone at her gently. “If you want to help your father,
then you must learn patience. Vitam impendere vero. To stake one’s life for the
truth. That is what we must do.”
“That is what your father is doing.” Mrs Whatsit nodded, her voice, like
Mrs Who’s, very serious, very solemn. Then she smiled her radiant smile.
“Now! Why don’t you three children wander around and Charles can explain
things a little. You’re perfectly safe on Uriel. That’s why we stopped here to
rest.”
“But aren’t you coming with us?” Meg asked fearfully.
There was silence for a moment. Then Mrs Which raised her authoritative
hand. “Sshoww themm,” she said to Mrs Whatsit, and at something in her
voice Meg felt prickles of apprehension.
“Now?” Mrs Whatsit asked, her creaky voice rising to a squeak. Whatever
it was Mrs Which wanted them to see, it was something that made Mrs
Whatsit uncomfortable, too.
“Nnoww,” Mrs Which said. “Tthey mmay aas welll knoww.”
“Should—should I change?” Mrs Whatsit asked.
“Bbetter.”
“I hope it won’t upset the children too much,” Mrs Whatsit murmured, as
though to herself.
“Should I change, too?” Mrs Who asked. “Oh, but I’ve had fun in these
clothes. But I’ll have to admit Mrs Whatsit is the best at it. Das Werk lobt den
Meister. German. The work proves the craftsman. Shall I transform now,
too?”
Mrs Which shook her head. “Nnott yett. Nnott heere. Yyou mmay wwaitt.”
“Now, don’t be frightened, loves,” Mrs Whatsit said. Her plump little body
began to shimmer, to quiver, to shift. The wild colors of her clothes became
muted, whitened. The pudding-bag shape stretched, lengthened, merged. And
suddenly before the children was a creature more beautiful than any Meg had
even imagined, and the beauty lay in far more than the outward description.
Outwardly Mrs Whatsit was surely no longer a Mrs Whatsit. She was a
marble-white body with powerful flanks, something like a horse but at the
same time completely unlike a horse, for from the magnificently modeled
back sprang a nobly formed torso, arms, and a head resembling a man’s, but a
man with a perfection of dignity and virtue, an exaltation of joy such as Meg
had never before seen. No, she thought, it’s not like a Greek centaur. Not in
the least.
From the shoulders slowly a pair of wings unfolded, wings made of
rainbows, of light upon water, of poetry.
Calvin fell to his knees.
“No,” Mrs Whatsit said, though her voice was not Mrs Whatsit’s voice.
“Not to me, Calvin. Never to me. Stand up.”
“Ccarrry themm,” Mrs Which commanded.
With a gesture both delicate and strong Mrs Whatsit knelt in front of the
children, stretching her wings wide and holding them steady, but quivering.
“Onto my back, now,” the new voice said.
The children took hesitant steps toward the beautiful creature.
“But what do we call you now?” Calvin asked.
“Oh, my dears,” came the new voice, a rich voice with the warmth of a
woodwind, the clarity of a trumpet, the mystery of an English horn. “You
can’t go on changing my name each time I metamorphose. And I’ve had such
pleasure being Mrs Whatsit I think you’d better keep to that.” She? he? it?
smiled at them, and the radiance of the smile was as tangible as a soft breeze,
as directly warming as the rays of the sun.
“Come.” Charles Wallace clambered up.
Meg and Calvin followed him, Meg sitting between the two boys. A tremor
went through the great wings and then Mrs Whatsit lifted and they were
moving through the air.
Meg soon found that there was no need to cling to Charles Wallace or
Calvin. The great creature’s flight was serenely smooth. The boys were
eagerly looking around the landscape.
“Look.” Charles Wallace pointed. “The mountains are so tall that you can’t
see where they end.”
Meg looked upward and indeed the mountains seemed to be reaching into
infinity.
They left the fertile fields and flew across a great plateau of granite-like
rock shaped into enormous monoliths. These had a definite, rhythmic form,
but they were not statues; they were like nothing Meg had ever seen before,
and she wondered if they had been made by wind and weather, by the
formation of this earth, or if they were a creation of beings like the one on
which she rode.
They left the great granite plain and flew over a garden even more beautiful
than anything in a dream. In it were gathered many creatures like the one Mrs
Whatsit had become, some lying among the flowers, some swimming in a
broad, crystal river that flowed through the garden, some flying in what Meg
was sure must be a kind of dance, moving in and out above the trees. They
were making music, music that came not only from their throats but from the
movement of their great wings as well.
“What are they singing?” Meg asked excitedly.
Mrs Whatsit shook her beautiful head. “It won’t go into your words. I can’t
possibly transfer it to your words. Are you getting any of it, Charles?”
Charles Wallace sat very still on the broad back, on his face an intently
listening look, the look he had when he delved into Meg or his mother. “A
little. Just a very little. But I think I could get more in time.”
“Yes. You could learn it, Charles. But there isn’t time. We can only stay
here long enough to rest up and make a few preparations.”
Meg hardly listened to her. “I want to know what they’re saying! I want to
know what it means.”
“Try, Charles,” Mrs Whatsit urged. “Try to translate. You can let yourself
go, now. You don’t have to hold back.”
“But I can’t!” Charles Wallace cried in an anguished voice. “I don’t know
enough! Not yet!”
“Then try to work with me and I’ll see if I can’t verbalize it a little for
them.”
Charles Wallace got his look of probing, of listening.
I know that look! Meg thought suddenly. Now I think I know what it
means! Because I’ve had it myself, sometimes, doing math with Father, when
a problem is just about to come clear—
Mrs Whatsit seemed to be listening to Charles’s thoughts. “Well, yes, that’s
an idea. I can try. Too bad you don’t really know it so you can give it to me
direct, Charles. It’s so much more work this way.”
“Don’t be lazy,” Charles said.
Mrs Whatsit did not take offense. She explained, “Oh, it’s my favorite kind
of work, Charles. That’s why they chose me to go along, even though I’m so
much younger. It’s my one real talent. But it takes a tremendous amount of
energy, and we’re going to need every ounce of energy for what’s ahead of us.
But I’ll try. For Calvin and Meg I’ll try.” She was silent; the great wings
almost stopped moving; only a delicate stirring seemed to keep them aloft.
“Listen, then,” Mrs Whatsit said. The resonant voice rose and the words
seemed to be all around them so that Meg felt that she could almost reach out
and touch them: “Sing unto the Lord a new song, and his praise from the end
of the earth, ye that go down to the sea, and all that is therein; the isles, and
the inhabitants thereof. Let the wilderness and the cities thereof lift their
voice; let the inhabitants of the rock sing, let them shout from the top of the
mountains. Let them give glory unto the Lord!”
Throughout her entire body Meg felt a pulse of joy such as she had never
known before. Calvin’s hand reached out; he did not clasp her hand in his; he
moved his fingers so that they were barely touching hers, but joy flowed
through them, back and forth between them, around them and about them and
inside them.
When Mrs Whatsit sighed, it seemed completely incomprehensible that
through this bliss could come the faintest whisper of doubt.
“We must go now, children.” Mrs Whatsit’s voice was deep with sadness,
and Meg could not understand. Raising her head, Mrs Whatsit gave a call that
seemed to be a command, and one of the creatures flying above the trees
nearest them raised its head to listen, and then flew off and picked three
flowers from a tree growing near the river and brought them over. “Each ofyou take one,” Mrs Whatsit said. “I’ll tell you how to use them later.”
As Meg took her flower she realized that it was not a single blossom but
hundreds of tiny flowerets forming a kind of hollow bell.
“Where are we going?” Calvin asked.
“Up.”
The wings moved steadily, swiftly. The garden was left behind, the stretch
of granite, the mighty shapes, and then Mrs Whatsit was flying upward,
climbing steadily up, up. Below them the trees of the mountain dwindled,
became sparse, were replaced by bushes and then small, dry grasses, and then
vegetation ceased entirely and there were only rocks, points and peaks of
rock, sharp and dangerous. “Hold on tight,” Mrs Whatsit said. “Don’t slip.”
Meg felt Calvin’s arm circle her waist in a secure hold.
Still they moved upward.
Now they were in clouds. They could see nothing but drifting whiteness,
and the moisture clung to them and condensed in icy droplets. As Meg
shivered, Calvin’s grip tightened. In front of her Charles Wallace sat quietly.
Once he turned just long enough to give her a swift glance of tenderness and
concern. But Meg felt as each moment passed that he was growing farther and
farther away, that he was becoming less and less her adored baby brother and
more and more one with whatever kind of being Mrs Whatsit, Mrs Who, and
Mrs Which in actuality were.
Abruptly they burst out of the clouds into a shaft of light. Below them there
were still rocks; above them the rocks continued to reach up into the sky, but
now, though it seemed miles upward, Meg could see where the mountain at
last came to an end.
Mrs Whatsit continued to climb, her wings straining a little. Meg felt her
heart racing; cold sweat began to gather on her face and her lips felt as though
they were turning blue. She began to gasp.
“All right, children, use your flowers now,” Mrs Whatsit said. “The
atmosphere will continue to get thinner from now on. Hold the flowers up to
your face and breathe through them and they will give you enough oxygen. It
won’t be as much as you’re used to, but it will be enough.”
Meg had almost forgotten the flowers, and was grateful to realize that she
was still clasping them, that she hadn’t let them fall from her fingers. She
pressed her face into the blossoms and breathed deeply.
Calvin still held her with one arm, but he, too, held the flowers to his face.
Charles Wallace moved the hand with the flowers slowly, almost as though
he were in a dream.
Mrs Whatsit’s wings strained against the thinness of the atmosphere. The
summit was only a little way above them, and then they were there. Mrs
Whatsit came to rest on a small plateau of smooth silvery rock. There ahead
of them was a great white disk.
“One of Uriel’s moons,” Mrs Whatsit told them, her mighty voice faintly
breathless.
“Oh, it’s beautiful!” Meg cried. “It’s beautiful!”
The silver light from the enormous moon poured over them, blending with
the golden quality of the day, flowing over the children, over Mrs Whatsit,
over the mountain peak.
“Now we will turn around,” Mrs Whatsit said, and at the quality of her
voice, Meg was afraid again.
But when they turned she saw nothing. Ahead of them was the thin clear
blue of sky; below them the rocks thrusting out of the shifting sea of white
clouds.
“Now we will wait,” Mrs Whatsit said, “for sunset and moonset.”
Almost as she spoke the light began to deepen, to darken.
“I want to watch the moon set,” Charles Wallace said.
“No, child. Do not turn around, any of you. Face out toward the dark. What
I have to show you will be more visible then. Look ahead, straight ahead, as
far as you can possibly look.”
Meg’s eyes ached from the strain of looking and seeing nothing. Then,
above the clouds which encircled the mountain, she seemed to see a shadow, a
faint thing of darkness so far off that she was scarcely sure she was really
seeing it.
Charles Wallace said, “What’s that?”
“That sort of shadow out there,” Calvin gestured. “What is it? I don’t like
it.”
“Watch,” Mrs Whatsit commanded.
It was a shadow, nothing but a shadow. It was not even as tangible as a
cloud. Was it cast by something? Or was it a Thing in itself?
The sky darkened. The gold left the light and they were surrounded by
blue, blue deepening until where there had been nothing but the evening sky
there was now a faint pulse of star, and then another and another and another.
There were more stars than Meg had ever seen before.
“The atmosphere is so thin here,” Mrs Whatsit said as though in answer to
her unasked question, “that it does not obscure your vision as it would at
home. Now look. Look straight ahead.”
Meg looked. The dark shadow was still there. It had not lessened or
dispersed with the coming of night. And where the shadow was, the stars
were not visible.
What could there be about a shadow that was so terrible that she knew that
there had never been before or ever would be again anything that would chill
her with a fear that was beyond shuddering, beyond crying or screaming,
beyond the possibility of comfort?
Meg’s hand holding the blossoms slowly dropped and it seemed as though
a knife gashed through her lungs. She gasped, but there was no air for her to
breathe. Darkness glazed her eyes and mind, but as she started to fall into
unconsciousness her head dropped down into the flowers, which she was still
clutching; and as she inhaled the fragrance of their purity her mind and body
revived, and she sat up again.
The shadow was still there, dark and dreadful.
Calvin held her hand strongly in his, but she felt neither strength nor
reassurance in his touch. Beside her a tremor went through Charles Wallace,
but he sat very still.
He shouldn’t be seeing this, Meg thought. This is too much for so little a
boy, no matter how different and extraordinary a little boy.
Calvin turned, rejecting the dark Thing that blotted out the light of the stars.
“Make it go away, Mrs Whatsit,” he whispered. “Make it go away. It’s evil.”
Slowly the great creature turned around so that the shadow was behind
them, so that they saw only the stars unobscured, the soft throb of starlight on
the mountain, the descending circle of the great moon swiftly slipping over
the horizon. Then, without a word from Mrs Whatsit, they were traveling
downward, down, down. When they reached the corona of clouds Mrs
Whatsit said, “You can breathe without the flowers now, my children.”
Silence again. Not a word. It was as though the shadow had somehow
reached out with its dark power and touched them so that they were incapable
of speech. When they got back to the flowery field, bathed now in starlight,
and moonlight from another, smaller, yellower rising moon, a little of the
tenseness went out of their bodies, and they realized that the body of the
beautiful creature on which they rode had been as rigid as theirs.
With a graceful gesture it dropped to the ground and folded its great wings.
Charles Wallace was the first to slide off. “Mrs Who! Mrs Which!” he called,
and there was an immediate quivering in the air. Mrs Who’s familiar glasses
gleamed at them. Mrs Which appeared, too; but, as she had told the children,
it was difficult for her to materialize completely, and though there was the
robe and peaked hat, Meg could look through them to mountain and stars. She
slid off Mrs Whatsit’s back and walked, rather unsteadily after the long ride,
over to Mrs Which.
“That dark Thing we saw,” she said. “Is that what my father is fighting?”
